-Republicans
have opposed every attempt
to hold President Trump
accountable for his comments
on Russian election meddling.
But there is one idea they seem
to like -- more tax cuts.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
♪♪
Trump continues to stammer
and back pedal
after his disastrous performance
with Vladimir Putin on Monday.
In an interview with Fox News,
for example,
he seemed to imply that Russia
was actually an ally
of the United States,
but also insisted
that he was not pro-Russia.
-You look at World War I and
World War II, that was Germany.
And in World War II,
Russia lost 50 million people
and helped us win the war.
I was saying to myself
the other day, you know,
Russia really helped us.
I'm not pro-Russia, pro-anybody.
-I'm not pro-anybody.
It would have been
much more honest
if Trump said that with his hand
on the Bible.
[ As Trump ]
I'm not pro-anybody.
I'm only pro-myself, and I stand
firmly behind my closest allies,
me, myself, and I.
So help me, God, a person,
who, if I'm being honest,
I could leave or take.
[ Normal voice ]
Now, of course, diplomacy is
infinitely preferable
to conflict,
but Russia isn't just
an adversary,
it's a repressive state that
interferes in our elections,
kills journalists
and dissidents,
uses nerve gas on foreign soil,
and invades its neighbors.
Yet, Trump, who has repeatedly
cast himself as a fighter
and counter puncher, wouldn't
each use the word "adversary"
to describe Russia.
-Are they our chief adversary,
would you say?
-They're their strong military,
but the economy is much smaller,
as you know, than China,
and I don't want to even use
the word "adversary."
We can all work together.
We can do great.
Everybody can do well,
and we can live in peace.
-This guy will wake up
at 5:00 a.m.
to tweet nasty things about
everyone from Snoop Dogg
to Meryl Streep,
but when it comes to Russia,
he suddenly turns into
Ringo Starr.
[ As Ringo ]
We can all live together as one,
peace and love, peace and love,
no collusion, no collusion,
peace and love.
[ Cheers and applause ]
[ Normal voice ]
And look, in theory,
what he's saying sounds great.
Of course it would be ideal
if we could be at peace
with our adversaries.
In fact, after World War II,
we actually set up
international organizations
to try to do that, like NATO
or the beginnings
of the European Union.
And as far as World Wars go,
they've been pretty effective
at stopping them.
And yet, at every turn,
Trump has attacked
those organizations.
In that same interview,
for example,
he implied that new members
of NATO,
like the small Eastern European
nation of Montenegro,
which has fewer than
a million people,
might actually start a war
with Russia.
-Membership in NATO
obligates the members
to defend any other member
that's attacked.
So let's say Montenegro, just
joined last year, is attacked.
Why should my son
go to Montenegro
to defend it from attack?
-I understand
what you're saying.
I've asked the same question.
You know, Montenegro is a tiny
country with very strong people.
-I'm not against Montenegro.
Or Albania.
-They have very strong people.
They have
very aggressive people.
They may get aggressive.
And congratulations,
you're in World War III.
-Ah, yes, the famously
aggressive people of Montenegro.
And I'm sorry, there's
a zero-percent chance that Trump
ever heard of Montenegro
before his meeting with Putin.
[ As Trump ] Montenegro?
Oh, yeah,
my friend Dave used to drive
one of those.
[ Laughter ]
Beautiful car, the Montenegro.
[ Normal voice ] Trump acts like
he's an expert on Montenegro,
but I'm absolutely certain
he couldn't find it on a map
if you gave him 10 tries.
[ As Trump ] Is it this one?
Okay, is it this one?
Okay, it's got to be this one.
[ Normal voice ] And to be fair,
I couldn't find Montenegro
on a map either.
But I'm not the one talking
about it like I'm a producer
on "House Hunters
International."
Also, can we go back to
the beginning of that clip?
-Why should my son
go to Montenegro
to defend it from attack?
-I understand
what you're saying.
I asked the same question.
-[ As Trump ]
I understand what you're saying.
I asked the same question.
[ Normal voice ] Sounds like
he's doing a Robert De Niro
impression there.
[ Laughter ]
And I think De Niro
has something to say
about you doing that impression.
-[Bleep] Trump.
-Now, here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
[ Cheers and applause ]
[ As Trump ]
I know what I'm saying.
[ Normal voice ]
Trump has made clear repeatedly
that he aligned himself
with Putin.
There are no surprises there.
The question is whether Congress
is willing to do anything
like censure him or subpoena
his tax returns, and so far,
the answer's been
a resounding no.
Alaska senator Lisa Murkowski,
who casts herself
as an occasional Trump critic
told Politico...
That is an amazing quote.
"I don't know if you noticed,
but I would never sacrifice
myself for the greater good.
I'm not one of those
'serve the public' types."
Also, you don't have to
lay in front of the train.
The train is already off
the tracks and headed your way.
Right now, it's on Fox News
saying something crazy
about Montenegro.
Trump's ties to Russian
oligarchs obviously pose
major conflict of interest
questions
and might at least partially
explain his affinity for Putin.
And yet, Republicans are still
pushing back on demands
to see Trump's tax returns.
Like New York Congressman
Tom Reed who tried to claim
that if Hillary Clinton
had refused to release
her tax returns, Republicans
would have been fine with that.
-Do you want to see
his tax returns?
-As we have always said,
the issue of this question
is that red herring.
You know, The President
has made the decision.
He's won the election
the way that it's been handled.
We need to move forward.
-Republicans
had a lot of concern
about where
Hillary Clinton's money
was tied up with
the Clinton Foundation.
If she said she wasn't going to
release her tax returns
and then became President
and had a whole lot
of controversy and drama
surrounding her ties
to a foreign government
the way Donald Trump did,
would you think it was
appropriate for her
not to release her tax returns?
-That's for her to decide,
and we respect that decision.
-That is insane.
If President Hillary Clinton
had been accused of colluding
with a foreign adversary
to undermine an election
and refused to release
her tax returns,
Mitch McConnell would personally
dig through her trash
and break into her house
like Tom Cruise
in "Mission Impossible."
Also, stop saying
we need to move forward!
You support Donald Trump.
He can't make it through
one press conference
without mentioning
how many electoral votes
he won two years ago.
If he's ever indicted,
he'll tell the judge,
[ As Trump ] I ask that
we move this trial to Wisconsin,
which I won.
And many people
don't know this --
I also won the Carolinas,
all three of them.
[ Laughter ]
[ Normal voice ] And then there
was Kentucky Congressman
Thomas Massie
who said that it was actually
the Democrat's fault
they were hacked.
-Hacking e-mails is a crime.
-Well, then [Chuckles]
Debbie Wasserman Schultz
probably shouldn't hire
foreign nationals to run
her Congressional e-mail account
and give them
all of her passwords.
-Is that actually
more serious to you,
that was Donald Trump's
reference
to a Pakistani yesterday.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz
and a Pakistani-American citizen
is more important to you?
-I'm not -- I don't see
your dichotomy there.
What I do see is that, you know,
we should protect our systems.
You can't protect stupid.
-What do you mean,
you can't protect stupid?
The secret service does it
every day.
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
We've got, uh...
Stupid is on the move.
[ Laughter ]
I'd say he's lumbering.
You got some time.
So after The President
openly took the side
of a foreign adversary
in its attempt to undermine
American democracy, Republicans
see no need to either subpoena
his tax returns
or protect our election systems.
So what's their solution
instead?
According to Texas Congressman
Kevin Brady,
who met with Trump this week,
the solution to Russian
aggression is to make the GOP's
corporate tax cuts,
which are set to expire
in 2025, permanent.
-Peace through strength
is foreign policy that works,
and it works best when America
has a strong economy
and a strong military.
Under your leadership,
House and Senate Republicans
are delivering on both of them.
Today is about how we can
strengthen America's economy
even more,
and we think the best place
to start is with America's
middle class families
and our small businesses.
So today, we're here to talk
to you about making permanent
this tax relief.
-Oh, my God, they really think
tax cuts are the solution
to everything.
Republicans use tax cuts
the way Guy Fieri uses butter.
[ Laughter ]
And obviously, this is insane
for a number of reasons.
Not only will corporate tax cuts
do absolutely nothing
to deter Russian aggression,
they don't even do anything
to help the economy
or specifically,
worker's wages --
as we've already seen
with these GOP tax cuts.
-The financial website PayScale
has released its data
for the second quarter of 2018
and found that the average wage
paid to U.S. workers is down for
the first time since early 2015.
Accounting for inflation,
the wages of American workers
have dropped 1.4%
in the past year.
That's despite one-time bonuses
paid by some businesses
in the wake of the GOP tax cuts.
-That's right.
Wages have actually gone down
since the tax cuts passed.
Trump said the tax cuts
would raise wages.
How do you explain that,
Mr. President?
-I said the word would
instead of wouldn't.
-Oh.
[ Laughter, cheers,
and applause ]
That tracks. Totally tracks.
This is one of the keys
to understanding what's
happening right now.
The GOP establishment
and donor class are fine
with Trump's attacks
on democracy
as long as they can
enrich themselves.
They're hostile to democracy
because democracy is hostile
to their agenda.
And they think passing
another tax cut bill
and pleasing
their wealthy donors
will protect Trump politically.
But if there's one thing we've
learned this week, it's that...
-You can't protect stupid.
This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
♪♪